
====

narrative:
Federation led by the Censors
who were able to divide and rule all the known civilizations because of their control over time
humanity did not bow down because of millenia history of struggle, and ignorance of the true power of the censors
become a symbol of resistance over the course of a game
final boss is a censor "control station" 
[Censors trapped some humans here in a time loop; free them and they will help you win the level]
[time nodes or w/e that you have to destroy. maybe a new time crystal resource?]


The Network - creators are long gone and unknown...  but maybe an ancient human [capitalist] project.
 - Downfall: Upon seeing the Censors' ability, The Network spontaneously arrived at a decision. Submit rather than face certain extinction. All properly functioning devices voted yes. 

Barysi - Extremely high energy civilization which rapidly burns through rare minerals and must move on.
 - Downfall: The Censors chose not to fight, but to use their power to trick their diplomats and foment internal war. 
             Exhausted with their deeply fractured society, a final congress was held which disbanded the traditional social structure and handed the reigns of power to the Censors.
             
Void Keepers - Discovered the void. Keepers understand it only in ritualistic terms, not scientifically. But the power of the void is vast.
 - Downfall: A long battle. The void provided cover and strength, but the Censors were resilient, their army endlessly refreshed and saved by time manipulation. The keepers know
             better and more deeply than anyone, that you cannot win against the Censors.

===

Per-run story:
 - Hear signal
 - lvl1 - Sneak attack on alien fleet
 - lvl4 - Future tech (from Censors)...
    "Commander, we've intercepted a transmission...
    the BARYSI NOMADS in this quadrant have been granted FUTURISTIC technology - by an unknown benefactor!
    DESCRIPTION
    ...someone out there is desperate for us to fail."
 - lvl6+ - Time loop planet
    "Commander, detecting strange behavior on one of the planets in this quadrant...
    Its atmosphere and lifeforms appear stuck in a time loop! What does it mean?"
 - lvl8 - Something is wrong with the signal
 - lvl11 - Censors


0. Distress signal from distant humans
Pre 1. We're on our way... gotta make it through here. We're undetected, sneak attack! [Civ 1]
Pre 2. They sent out an alert to their allies! But we have to keep moving on. [Civ 1]
Pre 3. The whole federation now knows, and will be coming for us. [Civ 2]
Pre 4. They've been granted some strange new technology, by an unknown force! [Civ 2]
Pre 5. Nothing
Pre 6. Entering the inner zone... strange anomolies on planets (time loop)
Pre 7. 